Add program practitioners KDD (#930)
openmsupply/open-msupply: decisions/2022-12-12_programs_practitioners.md

# Program Practitioners

- _Date_: 2022-12-12
- _Deciders_:
- _Status_:
- _Outcome_:

## Context

Program encounters need to store the practitioner who actually saw a patient.
The practitioner is not necessarily the currently logged in user, e.g. a data clerk could enter an encounter on behave of a practitioner.
Furthermore, for the UI it would be nice to have a drop down list of existing practitioners.

Currently there is also no way to figure out if a user is a practitioner or just a normal mSupply user.
If a user is a practitioner the users should be used as a default practitioner for a new encounter.

## Options

### Option 1

Use existing `clinician` table to manage clinicians.
What missing is the ability to map a user to a clinician entry (to be able find the clinician entry of the currently logged in user).
Could the `clinician.code` column be used? or better a new `clinician.user_id` column?

_Cons:_

> - If a user is a practitioner, user data is stored in the `user` and the `clinician` table

Reviewer: Possibly less of an issue for omSupply... but users sync is _odd_. If adding a clinician on a omSupply, they'll need to be able to create a user on omSupply as well in order to fill this requirement. Otherwise, clinicians and users created centrally might be worth noting as a _con_ here.

Author: Added a note about it

### Option 2

Add option to flag users to a practitioner.
Moreover, use the clinician table for practitioner that don't have an mSupply user account.

_Cons:_

- Two sources for practitioners (but could be unified through a view)

### Option 3

> Manage practitioners that are no user through a config file.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps ```suggestion
Manage practitioners that are not users through a config file.
```
